# URL (Uniform Resource Locator)

In simple words, a URL or URI is a human readable address that can be easily memorized and used to perform a connection to a server over the internet.
It is compose with different parts:

- Protocol
- Domain
    - Subdomain
    - Primary Domain
    - TLD (Top Level Domain)
- Path

## Protocol

We already covered some transmission protocol before as TCP and UDP.
But when we talk about URLs we are talking about Application protocols.
The most common one used for web applications is HTTP or HTTPS (this one is the same as the previous but with some security layers attached to it to encrypt the data transmited). Some others are SSH and FTP. Protocols are used to describe how an applications is about to be accessed.

## Domain

A domain is basically the main body of your URL, it is separated by three parts.

## Subdomain

It is the first label of your domain, it describe the specific section of our web site. Commonly used for the name of our app, for example:

    https://drive.google.com - drive is the subdomain for the Drive application of google

    https://gemini.google.com - gemini is the subdomain for the AI assistant application of google


## Primary Domain

This is reserved to main name of our domain, usually reserved to the company names, from there we can register subdomains for applications and other resources in that given domain.

## TLD

The last part of our domain is resposible to categorize our web site. There are many types of TLD: .com, .io, .gov, etc.

## Path

Paths are dedicated to route clients to specific resources of our web site, a page or endpoint dedicated to a very specificy feature. Paths can also have subpaths, which leads to another level of the same resource category.


